README.md, before:

# React Multple Image Input

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/codenaz/react-multiple-image-input.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/codenaz/react-multiple-image-input)

![demo](https://s4.gifyu.com/images/multiple-image-upload.gif)

Requires react >= 16.8.0

This package makes use of [react-image-cropper](https://github.com/DominicTobias/react-image-crop)

## Installation

Run the following command:
`npm install react-multiple-image-input`

## Usage

```javascript
import React, { useState } from 'react';
import MultiImageInput from 'react-multiple-image-input';

function App() {
  const crop = {
    unit: '%',
    aspect: 4 / 3,
    width: '100'
  };

  const [images, setImages] = useState({});

  return (
    <MultiImageInput
      images={images}
      setImages={setImages}
      cropConfig={{ crop, ruleOfThirds: true }}
    />
  );
}

export default App;
```

# Props

| Property    | Type                | Default | Description                                                                                       |
| ----------- | ------------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| images      | Object (required)   |         | A state variable for holding the images                                                           |
| setImages   | function (required) |         | A function that updates the images state                                                          |
| max         | number              | `3`     | Max number of images allowed                                                                      |
| allowCrop   | bool                | `true`  | Set to false to disable cropping                                                                  |
| cropConfig  | Object              |         | specifies cropping dimensions and limits                                                          | refer to https://github.com/DominicTobias/react-image-crop#props |
| theme       | Object or String    | `dark`  | Can be a simple string that specifies light or dark, or an object with your custom configurations |
| handleError | function            |         | A function for handling errors from this component                                                |

# Props Explained

### images(required)(_object_)

This is an object that houses the Base64 URLs to all the selected images. Each image has a key that starts from index `0` and is incremental as more images are added. It should be a state variable so that `react-multiple-image-input` can update it. Example:

```javascript
{
  0: image1,
  1: image2,
  3: image3
}
```

### setImages(required)(_function_)

A function for updating the images state. This can be easily acheived with react's useState hook.

```javascript
const [images, setImages] = useState({});
```

### max(optional)(_number_)

This specifies the maximum number of images you want this component to hold. It is set to `3` by default.

```jsx
<MultiImageInput
  max={3}
  images={setImages}
  setImages={setImages}
  cropConfig={{ crop }}
/>
```

### allowCrop(optional)(_boolean_)

A boolean attribute for enabling/disabling cropping. It is `true` by default, set it to `false` if you don't want cropping.

### cropConfig(optional)(_object_)

This sets the dimensions for cropping. You can pass in dimension props accepted by [react-image-cropper](https://github.com/DominicTobias/react-image-crop) into this object. A list of these props include

- crop

All crop params are initially optional.

\* _While you can initially omit the crop object, any subsequent change will need to be saved and passed into the component._

```js
crop: {
  unit: 'px', // default, can be 'px' or '%'
  x: 130,
  y: 50,
  width: 200,
  height: 200
}

<MultiImageInput  cropConfig={{crop}} />
```

If you want a fixed aspect you can either omit `width` and `height`:

```js
crop: {
  aspect: 16 / 9;
}
```

Or specify one or both of the dimensions:

```js
crop: {
  aspect: 16/9,
  width: 50,
}
```

If you specify just one of the dimensions, the other will be calculated for you.

```js
crop: {
  unit: '%',
  width: 50,
  height: 50,
}
```

`unit` is optional and defaults to pixels `px`. It can also be percent `%`. In the above example we make a crop that is 50% of the rendered image size. Since the values are a percentage of the image, it will only be a square if the image is also a square.

- minWidth

A minimum crop width, in pixels. Default value is `300`

```js
<MultiImageInput cropConfig={{ minWidth: 300 }} />
```

- minHeight

A minimum crop height, in pixels.

```js
<MultiImageInput cropConfig={{ minHeight: 200 }} />
```

- maxWidth

A maximum crop width, in pixels. Default value is `800`

```js
<MultiImageInput cropConfig={{ maxWidth: 200 }} />
```

- maxHeight

A maximum crop height, in pixels.

```js
<MultiImageInput cropConfig={{ maxHeight: 800 }} />
```

- keepSelection

If true is passed then selection can't be disabled if the user clicks outside the selection area.

- disabled

If true then the user cannot resize or draw a new crop.

- locked

If true then the user cannot create or resize a crop, but can still drag the existing crop around.

- style

Inline styles object to be passed to the image wrapper element.

- imageStyle

Inline styles object to be passed to the image element.

- onImageError(event)

This event is called if the image had an error loading.

- onDragStart(event)

A callback which happens when a user starts dragging or resizing. It is convenient to manipulate elements outside this component.

- onDragEnd(event)

A callback which happens when a user releases the cursor or touch after dragging or resizing.

- crossorigin

Allows setting the crossorigin attribute on the image.

- renderSelectionAddon(state)

Render a custom element in crop selection.

- ruleOfThirds

Show [rule of thirds](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rule_of_thirds) lines in the cropped area. Defaults to `false`.

- circularCrop

Show the crop area as a circle. If your aspect is not 1 (a square) then the circle will be warped into an oval shape. Defaults to `false`.

### Theme

You can customize the look and feel of the component to suit your app better. This prop can either be a string that specifies `dark` or `light` theme or an object to customize various parts of the component. The value of this prop is `dark` by default. As a string you can simply have;

```js
<MultiImageInput theme="dark" />
```

or

```js
<MultiImageInput theme="light" />
```

An object value will have to take the following properties

- outlineColor

This will set the color of the borders and svg image icon

- background

This will set the background color of the component

- textColor

This sets the color of any text in the component

- buttonColor

This sets the color of any buttons in the component

```js
<MultiImageInput
  theme={{
    background: '#ffffff',
    outlineColor: '#111111',
    textColor: 'rgba(255,255,255,0.6)',
    buttonColor: '#ff0e1f'
  }}
/>
```

#### handleError

You can pass in a function that will take takes the error message(string) as a parameter and handle it in your own component

```jsx

const handleError = (e) => console.log(e)

<MultiImageInput handleError={handleError} />
```

Commit message:

feat: modal to crop images

README.md, after:

# React Multple Image Input

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/codenaz/react-multiple-image-input.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/codenaz/react-multiple-image-input)

![demo](https://s4.gifyu.com/images/multiple-image-upload.gif)

Requires react >= 16.8.0

This package makes use of [react-image-cropper](https://github.com/DominicTobias/react-image-crop)

## Installation

Run the following command:
`npm install react-multiple-image-input`

## Usage

```javascript
import React, { useState } from 'react';
import MultiImageInput from 'react-multiple-image-input';

function App() {
  const crop = {
    unit: '%',
    aspect: 4 / 3,
    width: '100'
  };

  const [images, setImages] = useState({});

  return (
    <MultiImageInput
      images={images}
      setImages={setImages}
      cropConfig={{ crop, ruleOfThirds: true }}
    />
  );
}

export default App;
```

# Props

| Property    | Type                | Default | Description                                                                                       |
| ----------- | ------------------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| images      | Object (required)   |         | A state variable for holding the images                                                           |
| setImages   | function (required) |         | A function that updates the images state                                                          |
| max         | number              | `3`     | Max number of images allowed                                                                      |
| allowCrop   | bool                | `true`  | Set to false to disable cropping                                                                  |
| cropConfig  | Object              |         | specifies cropping dimensions and limits                                                          | refer to https://github.com/DominicTobias/react-image-crop#props |
| theme       | Object or String    | `dark`  | Can be a simple string that specifies light or dark, or an object with your custom configurations |
| handleError | function            |         | A function for handling errors from this component                                                |

# Props Explained

### images(required)(_object_)

This is an object that houses the Base64 URLs to all the selected images. Each image has a key that starts from index `0` and is incremental as more images are added. It should be a state variable so that `react-multiple-image-input` can update it. Example:

```javascript
{
  0: image1,
  1: image2,
  3: image3
}
```

### setImages(required)(_function_)

A function for updating the images state. This can be easily acheived with react's useState hook.

```javascript
const [images, setImages] = useState({});
```

### max(optional)(_number_)

This specifies the maximum number of images you want this component to hold. It is set to `3` by default.

```jsx
<MultiImageInput
  max={3}
  images={setImages}
  setImages={setImages}
  cropConfig={{ crop }}
/>
```

### allowCrop(optional)(_boolean_)

A boolean attribute for enabling/disabling cropping. It is `true` by default, set it to `false` if you don't want cropping.

### cropConfig(optional)(_object_)

This sets the dimensions for cropping. You can pass in dimension props accepted by [react-image-cropper](https://github.com/DominicTobias/react-image-crop) into this object. A list of these props include

- crop

All crop params are initially optional.

\* _While you can initially omit the crop object, any subsequent change will need to be saved and passed into the component._

```js
crop: {
  unit: 'px', // default, can be 'px' or '%'
  x: 130,
  y: 50,
  width: 200,
  height: 200
}

<MultiImageInput  cropConfig={{crop}} />
```

If you want a fixed aspect you can either omit `width` and `height`:

```js
crop: {
  aspect: 16 / 9;
}
```

Or specify one or both of the dimensions:

```js
crop: {
  aspect: 16/9,
  width: 50,
}
```

If you specify just one of the dimensions, the other will be calculated for you.

```js
crop: {
  unit: '%',
  width: 50,
  height: 50,
}
```

`unit` is optional and defaults to pixels `px`. It can also be percent `%`. In the above example we make a crop that is 50% of the rendered image size. Since the values are a percentage of the image, it will only be a square if the image is also a square.

- minWidth

A minimum crop width, in pixels. Default value is `300`

```js
<MultiImageInput cropConfig={{ minWidth: 300 }} />
```

- minHeight

A minimum crop height, in pixels.

```js
<MultiImageInput cropConfig={{ minHeight: 200 }} />
```

- maxWidth

A maximum crop width, in pixels. Default value is `800`

```js
<MultiImageInput cropConfig={{ maxWidth: 200 }} />
```

- maxHeight

A maximum crop height, in pixels.

```js
<MultiImageInput cropConfig={{ maxHeight: 800 }} />
```

- keepSelection

If true is passed then selection can't be disabled if the user clicks outside the selection area.

- disabled

If true then the user cannot resize or draw a new crop.

- locked

If true then the user cannot create or resize a crop, but can still drag the existing crop around.

- style

Inline styles object to be passed to the image wrapper element.

- imageStyle

Inline styles object to be passed to the image element.

- onImageError(event)

This event is called if the image had an error loading.

- onDragStart(event)

A callback which happens when a user starts dragging or resizing. It is convenient to manipulate elements outside this component.

- onDragEnd(event)

A callback which happens when a user releases the cursor or touch after dragging or resizing.

- crossorigin

Allows setting the crossorigin attribute on the image.

- renderSelectionAddon(state)

Render a custom element in crop selection.

- ruleOfThirds

Show [rule of thirds](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rule_of_thirds) lines in the cropped area. Defaults to `false`.

- circularCrop

Show the crop area as a circle. If your aspect is not 1 (a square) then the circle will be warped into an oval shape. Defaults to `false`.

### Theme

You can customize the look and feel of the component to suit your app better. This prop can either be a string that specifies `dark` or `light` theme or an object to customize various parts of the component. The value of this prop is `dark` by default. As a string you can simply have;

```js
<MultiImageInput theme="dark" />
```

or

```js
<MultiImageInput theme="light" />
```

An object value will have to take the following properties

- outlineColor

This will set the color of the borders and svg image icon

- background

This will set the background color of the component

- textColor

This sets the color of any text in the component

- buttonColor

This sets the color of any buttons in the component

- modalColor

This sets the background color of the modal component

```js
<MultiImageInput
  theme={{
    background: '#ffffff',
    outlineColor: '#111111',
    textColor: 'rgba(255,255,255,0.6)',
    buttonColor: '#ff0e1f',
    modalColor: '#ffffff
  }}
/>
```

#### handleError

You can pass in a function that will take takes the error message(string) as a parameter and handle it in your own component

```jsx

const handleError = (e) => console.log(e)

<MultiImageInput handleError={handleError} />
```
